>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, MARCH 15th, THE PRIM
MINISTER OF MALAYSIA SAYS TH
DISAPPEARANCE OF FLIGHT 370 WA
A DELIBERATE ACT AND LAUNCHES
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION
THE LATEST ON THE SEARCH FOR THE
PLANE.
MORE THAN HALF THE PASSENGER
ONBOARD WERE CHINESE CITIZENS.
TODAY THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
DEMANDED ANSWERS
>>> MARGARET WARNER REPORTS FROM
CRIMEA, WHERE A CRITICAL
REFERENDUM WILL BE HEL
TOMORROW
AND HOW THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE IS
SEEN FROM THE LARGEST UKRAINIA
COMMUNITY IN AMERICA
>> WHAT THIS CRISIS HAS DONE I
FORCED PEOPLE TO SAY, YOU KNOW
I GUESS I'M UKRAINIAN, AND I
GUESS IT MEANS SOMETHING
POLITICALLY.
>> NEXT, ON PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH STUDIOS IN LINCOLN
CENTER FROM NEW YORK
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THERE WERE SEVERAL MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS TODAY IN THE STOR
THAT HAS CAPTIVATED THE WORL
FOR THE PAST WEEK, THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF THAT MALAYSIA
JETLINER WITH 239 PEOPLE
ONBOARD.
THE PRIME MINISTER OF MALAYSIA
SAID FOR THE FIRST TIME THAT THE
777 WAS DELIBERATELY DIVERTE
AND HE SAID MALAYSIA I
LAUNCHING A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION INTO THE INCIDENT.
TODAY POLICE SEARCHED THE HOME
OF THE PLANE'S PILOT
>> WE CAN SAY WITH A HIGH DEGREE
OF CERTAINTY THAT THE AIRCRAFT
COMMUNICATION ADDRESSING AND
REPORTING SYSTEM, OR ACARS, WA
DISABLED
THE MALAYSIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE
REFOCUSED THEIR INVESTIGATIO
INTO THE CREW, AND PASSENGER
ONBOARD.
>> THE FOCUS OF THE SEARCH WHICH
BEGAN IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA
FROM KUALA LUMPUR TO BEIJING HAS
SHIFTED OUT OVER THE INDIA
OCEAN.
ODDING TO THE CONFUSION OVER THE
PLANE'S WHEREABOUTS, THE PRIME
MINISTER'S COMMENT THAT TH
MISSING PLANE FLEW FOR ANOTHER
SEVEN HOURS AFTER CONTACT WITH
IT WAS LOST.
HE SAID THE PLANE'S LAST
COMMUNICATION WITH SATELLITE
PLACED THE PLANE IN ONE OF TWO
CORRIDORS.
THE FIRST STRETCHING FRO
NORTHERN THAILAND TO THE BORDE
OF KAZAKHSTAN, AND THE SECON
FROM INDONESIA TO THE SOUTHERN
INDIAN OCEAN
IN BEIJING TODAY, A FOREIG
MINISTRY OFFICIAL SAID HE'
ANNOYED BY THE PACE OF THE
INVESTIGATION BY THE MALAYSIAN
AUTHORITIES.
>> Translator: WE URGE MALAYSI
TO EXPAND THE SEARCH AREA,
INCREASE THE INTENSITY OF TH
SEARCH
>> ALMOST TWO-THIRDS OF TH
PEOPLE ABOARD THE MISSIN
JETLINER WERE CHINESE CITIZENS
FOR MORE ABOUT HOW THE CHINESE
ARE REACTING TO THE CONTINUALL
UNFOLDING STORY, WE'RE JOINE
BETTER ORVILLE SHELL AT TH
ASIAN SOCIETY.
HOW IS THIS STORY PLAYING OUT IN
CHINA?
>> WELL, I THINK SINCE CHINESE
WERE SO PREPONDRANT, CHINA FEELS
THEY HAVE A VERY SUBSTANTIAL
INTEREST IN KNOWING WHAT
HAPPENED
IT'S CURIOUS, BECAUSE USUALL
CHINA IS NOT THE MOS
TRANSPARENT OF COUNTRIES
BUT IN THIS CASE THEY ARE BEIN
QUITE INSISTENT, AND SOMETIMES
EVEN ACCUSATORY IN REGARD TO
MALAYSIA, ACCUSING THEM OF
WITHHOLDING INFORMATION, OF NO
BEING VERY OPEN, AND NOT PASSING
OUT SUBSTANTIAL ENOUGH
INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT'S GOING
ON
SO THIS HUGE FLEET OF SHIPS AN
PLANES THAT'S TRYING TO FIND THE
CRASH COULD DO EFFECTIVE WORK.
>> SO HOW MUCH OF THIS PRESSUR
THAT THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT IS
PUTTING ON THE MALAYSIAN
GOVERNMENT IS COMING FRO
PRESSURE THEY'RE FEELING FRO
ALL THOSE FAMILY MEMBERS WHO
STILL DON'T HAVE INFORMATION O
THEIR LOVED ONES
>> IT'S TURNED INTO A HUGE DRAMA
IN CHINA
THESE CHINESE FAMILIES WAITING
IN A HOTEL IN BEIJING FOR A WEEK
NOW, WAITING FOR NEWS.
AND IT'S PLAYED OUT ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY, BECAUSE THIS IS, AT
LEAST SO FAR, AN INCIDENT WHIC
DOES NOT ACTUALLY INVOLVE CHINA.
I THINK CHINA'S FEAR, HOWEVER,
IS THAT IF THERE PROVES TO B
SOME SORT OF A HIJACKING, AN
SHOULD THE HIJACKERS PROVE T
HAVE SOMETHING TO DO WITH THEI
OWN ISLAMIC INDEPENDENCE
MOVEMENT, AND THERE HAVE BEE
MANY OCCASIONS IN THE LAST FEW
MONTHS THAT HAVE ERUPTED I
CHINA, AND BEEN VERY SAVAGEL
BRUTAL, WELL, THIS WOULD BE
KIND OF A BLOW FOR CHINA, WHIC
TODAY IT'S BEEN ABLE TO KEEP
SOMEWHAT ALOOF FROM AN
IMPUTATION OF WRONGDOING
>> AND HOW DOES THIS IMPACT TH
KIND OF GEOPOLITICAL STABILITY
IN THE REGION?
THERE ARE MULTIPLE DISPUTES OVER
TERRITORIES IN THE REGION, AND
HOW DOES CHINA WANT TO B
PERCEIVED IN THOSE FIGHTS?
>> WELL, CHINA A FEW YEARS AGO
WAS PERCEIVED IN A RATHE
FRIENDLY AND, I THINK, EFFECTIVE
MANNER
THEY HAD DECLARED THEY WER
RISING PEACEFULLY.
AND COUNTRIES LIKE THE
PHILIPPINES, VIETNAM AND
MALAYSIA WERE, I THINK, QUIT
SOOTHED BY THIS IDEA
OF LATE, HOWEVER, AS CHINA HAS
CLAIMED MOST OF THE SOUTH CHIN
SEA, AND LOTS OF ISLAND CHAINS
WITHIN THAT GREAT REGION, THAT
ARE ALSO CLAIMED BY VIETNAM,
MALAYSIA, PHILIPPINES, AND
BRUNEI, THERE'S LOTS OF TENSION.
THIS SEARCH FOR THIS PLANE HAS
ACTUALLY BROUGHT AT LEAS
MOMENTARILY EVERYBODY TOGETHER
IN A COMMON ENDEAVOR
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT'S
ALWAYS COME EASILY TO CHINA,
WHICH HAS ALWAYS BEE
CIRCUMSPECT ABOUT VIOLATIONS O
OTHER COUNTRIES' SOVEREIGNTY
FOR HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION,
OR EFFORTS THAT HAVE INVOLVE
SORT OF COLLECTIVE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
SO THIS IS A GOOD EXAMPLE, I
THINK, OF CHINA JOINING SUCH A
EFFORT
BUT I DON'T THINK IN THE LON
RUN IT'S GOING TO MITIGATE THE
TENSIONS IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA.
>> ALL RIGHT
ORVILLE SHELL JOINING US FRO
SAN FRANCISCO, THANK YOU VER
MUCH
>> PLEASURE.
>>> TO THE OTHER MAJOR STORY
THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE.
THIS AFTERNOON UKRAINE ACCUSIN
RUSSIA OF SENDING TROOPS OUTSIDE
OF CRIMEA.
THEY SAID RUSSIA DEPLOYED 80
TROOPS, THREE ARMORED VEHICLES
AND FOUR HELICOPTER GUN SHIPS IN
A REGION NORTH OF CRIMEA
BACK HERE IN NEW YORK, AT TH
UNITED NATIONS, RUSSIA VETOED
RESOLUTION DECLARING TOMORROW'
REFERENDUM IN CRIMEA INVALID
DESPITE INTERNATIONAL PROTESTS
THE REFERENDUM WILL TAKE PLACE
JAMES MASON HAS THE LATEST O
THE CRISIS
>> A SIGHT THAT WILL DELIGHT THE
PEOPLE OF UKRAINE, A MASSIVE
ANTI-WAR MARCH THIS AFTERNOON.
NOT IN KIEV, BUT RIGHT UNDER
PRESIDENT PUTIN'S NOSE I
MOSCOW
THE BANNER READING FOR RUSSI
AND UKRAINE, WITHOUT PUTIN
IT'S AN EXTRAORDINARY SHOW O
DISSENT WHERE IT'S BEEN BRUTALLY
SUPPRESSED IN RECENT MONTHS.
A RUSSIAN JUST OUT OF JAIL LED
THE SPEECHES
>> Translator: THE PEOPLE I SE
HERE, THESE ARE THE PEOPLE FRO
A DIFFERENT RUSSIA, FROM THA
RUSSIA WHERE I WANT TO LIVE.
>> MUCH MORE WORRYING WERE
EVENTS LAST NIGHT FROM THE
EASTERN UKRAINIAN CITY O
KHARTIV.
TWO MEN REPORTED DEAD FROM
GUNSHOTS
WHO STARTED IT HARDLY MATTERS,
IT'S EXACTLY THE SORT OF
INCIDENT THAT COULD BE USED BY
MOSCOW AS AN EXCUSE TO MOV
FURTHER INTO UKRAINE
THE OTHER MAJOR CITY IN THE EAST
OF THE COUNTRY, PRO-RUSSIANS
WERE ON THE STREETS THIS
AFTERNOON IN HUGE NUMBERS.
HOW MUCH OF THIS IS ORGANIZED,
HOW MUCH SPONTANEOUS I
IMPOSSIBLE TO TELL
ONE CERTAINTY IS THAT IT I
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
WITH DIPLOMACY AT A STAND STILL,
THE SECURITY COUNCIL IN NEW YORK
RON DEMED THE REFERENDUM
TOMORROW
>> Translator: IT IS A SECRET TO
NO ONE, THAT THE RUSSIAN
FEDERATION WILL VOTE AGAINST THE
DRAFT RESOLUTION
WE CANNOT GO ALONG WITH TH
BASIC ASSUMPTION, THAT I
DECLARING ILLEGAL THE MARC
PLANNED REFERENDUM
>> THE REFER DUMB WILL GO AHEA
TOMORROW MORNING
THE RESULT IS NOT IN DOUBT
BUT WHAT HAPPENS NEXT IS MOR
INTERESTING.
IF RUSSIA USES THE VOTE TO MAK
ITS OCCUPATION OF CRIMEA
PERMANENT, THEN THE TALK IN TH
WEST IS LIKELY TO TURN INT
ACTION
>> TURNING NOW TO AFGHANISTAN,
WHERE TODAY PRESIDENT HAMI
KARZAI SAID HIS COUNTRY IS
PREPARED FOR A COMPLET
WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN AND NAT
TROOPS BY THE END OF THIS YEAR
IN HIS FINAL ADDRESS T
PARLIAMENT, KARZAI SAID TH
AFGHAN MILITARY IS UP TO THE
TASK OF PROTECTING THE NATION.
THE U.S. HAS BEEN PRESSING
KARZAI TO SIGN A SECURIT
AGREEMENT THAT WOULD LEAVE A
SMALL NUMBER OF AMERICAN TROOP
IN AFGHANISTAN BEYOND THIS YEAR.
IN NEIGHBORING PAKISTAN, A
DOCTOR WHO HELPED THE UNITED
STATES TRACK DOWN AND KILL OSAMA
BIN LADEN HAD HIS PRISON
SENTENCE REDUCED FROM 33 TO 23
YEARS.
THE UNITED STATES HAD CALLED FOR
HIS OUTRIGHT RELEASE, AND
SENATE COMMITTEE APPROVE
LEGISLATION REDUCING AID T
PAKISTAN BY MILLIONS OF DOLLAR
BECAUSE OF HIS CONVICTION AN
SENTENCING
PAKISTANI AUTHORITIES ACCUSE
THE DOCTOR OF TREATING ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
THE DOCTOR TOOK DNA SAMPLES AS
PART OF A VACCINATION PROGRA
PURPORTEDLY DEVISED BY THE CIA
TO CONFIRM BIN LADEN WAS IN TH
AREA, WHERE HE WAS LATER KILLE
BY U.S. COMMANDOS.
>>> IRANIAN AUTHORITIES HAVE
REPORTED SEVERAL CASES OF WHAT
THEY CALL INDUSTRIAL SABOTAGE,
INCLUDING ONE AT THE IRA
NUCLEAR FACILITY
IN THE PAST, TEHRAN ACCUSE
ISRAEL AND THE UNITED STATES O
UTILIZING COMPUTER VIRUSES T
UNDERMINE ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
IRAN RECENTLY ANNOUNCED TH
CREATION OF A SPECIA
INTELLIGENCE TEAM TO FIGHT CYBER
ATTACKS.
IN THIS COUNTRY, THE FEDERAL
DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATIO
HAS SUED 16 OF THE WORLD'S
LEADING BANKS FOR ALLEGEDL
COLLUDING TO MANIPULATE INTEREST
RATES FROM 2007 TO 2011.
THEY SAID THE BANKS DID SO T
INCREASE THE PROFITS
AMONG THE NAMES IS CITIGROUP AND
CREDIT SUISSE.
AND THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL" IS
EXTEND THE MARCH 31st DEADLINE
FOR SIGNING UP FOR HEALTH CARE
COVERAGE
THE EXTENSION WOULD BE FOR THOSE
WHO TRY TO ENROLL BUT CANNOT
BECAUSE OF ANY TECHNICAL
GLITCHES FROM A LAST-MINUT
RUSH
>>> RETURNING NOW TO THE CRISI
IN UKRAINE
THE CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIR
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNE
JOINS US FROM THE CRIMEA
CAPITAL CITY WHERE A KEY
REFERENDUM WILL BE HEL
TOMORROW
WHAT'S THE ATMOSPHERE LIKE O
THE EVE OF THE VOTE THAT THE
WHOLE WORLD IS WATCHING?
>> WELL, THIS WAS PROCLAIMED A
DAY OF QUIET BEFORE THE VOTE
MEANING NO RALLIES
DEMONSTRATES, SPEECHES
IN FACT, THE DAY APPARENTL
PASSED WITHOUT ANY PROVE
OVATIONS OR CONFRONTATIONS HER
IN CRIMEA.
BUT IT'S TOTALLY ENFORCED BY
RUSSIAN, AND RUSSIAN
SYMPATHETIC, RUSSIAN SUPPORTIN
CRIMEAN TROOPS
WHEN WE CAME TO THE PARLIAMENT
TODAY, TO GET OUR CREDENTIAL
FOR TOMORROW, WE MET COSSACK
SOLDIERS
THE RUSSIAN FLAG IS FLYING I
THE ATRIUM OF THE CRIMEA
BUILDING
THIS IS SATURDAY NIGHT, AN
THERE'S A RESTAURANT SET UP WITH
LIGHTS, BUT THERE'S MORE
RUSSIANS STANDING IN FRONT OF IT
THAN KRAMIAN CUSTOMERS WALKING
IN
WHEN WE LEFT TOWN TO VISIT SOM
VILLAGES, WE HAD TO RUN
GAUNTLET OF RUSSIAN-MANNED O
RUSSIAN REGULAR MANNED ROA
BLOCKS WHERE WE SIMPLY LET OUR
RUSSIAN PHOTOGRAPHER DO TH
TALKING.
>> INDEPENDENT ELECTION VIEWERS,
TELL US ABOUT IT
YOU WERE THERE
>> WELL, THEY DID SAY THAT THESE
WERE INDEPENDENT INTERNATIONAL
OBSERVERS, BUT WHEN THEY STARTED
SPEAKING TO THE PRESS CORPS,
THEY SOUNDED ANYTHING BUT.
THE FIRST WAS TO SPEAK FROM TH
CRIMEAN PARLIAMENT
AND SAID THE ELECTION WAS FAIR
LEGITIMATE, AND LEGAL UNDE
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
AND SHE WENT ON TO DENOUNCE TH
AMERICANS SAYING THAT TH
GOVERNMENT IN KIEV WAS
ILLEGITIMATE, AND THAT WHENEVE
THE AMERICANS CALLED, THEY
RESPONDED.
THE ONE AMERICAN OBSERVE
SOUNDED MUCH THE SAME THING,
FROM THE CHICAGO AREA, WHO
WRITES FOR A CONSERVATIV
MAGAZINE SAID THIS WILL USHER IN
A NEW ERA TO END THE GLOBAL HO
OH JENNY OF THE UNITED STATES.
IT WAS IRONIC THAT PRESIDENT
OBAMA AND SECRETARY KERRY WERE
DEFENDING ESSENTIALLY A DECISION
OF A FORMER SOVIET LEADE
KHRUSHCHEV TO GIVE CRIMEA A WA
TO UKRAINE, WHEN VLADIMIR PUTI
WAS THE ONE UPHOLDING THE RIGH
OF SELF-DETERMINATION.
THEY ARE GOING TO BE RUNNING THE
MONITORING OPERATION AT ALL TH
POLLING PLACES TOMORROW.
>> YOU SAID THERE WAS A SENSE OF
UNEASY
WHAT ARE PEOPLE TELLING YO
ABOUT WHAT MAY HAVE HAPPEN AFTER
THE VOTE
>> THEY DO FEAR VIOLENCE
THAT WAS EXACERBATED BY REPORT
THAT IN FACT RUSSIAN FORCE
MOVED INTO UKRAINE PROPER TODAY.
NORTH OF CRIMEA, TO SEE THE FUEL
DUMP
ABOVE ALL, THEY FEAR VIOLENCE.
THEY FEAR VIOLENCE COMING TO
WHAT HAS BEEN A VERY PEACEFU
PART OF UKRAINE, A PLACE WHERE
RUSSIANS AND UKRAIIANS CAME TO
VACATION
AND THEY REALLY FEAR THE
UNKNOWN.
AND I WOULD SAY THE PEOPLE ARE
MOST UNCOMFORTABLE, NOT ABOU
WHAT WILL HAPPEN TOMORROW IN THE
VOTE, BUT WHAT MAY HAPPEN NEXT
>> MARGARET WARNER, THANKS S
MUCH
>>> THE IMAGES FROM THE NEWS
HOUR'S REPORTING TEAM IN CRIMEA.
VISIT NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, WE THOUGH
TO LOOK AT THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE
FROM ANOTHER POINT OF VIEW
WE SHOULD EMPHASIZE WHAT W
FOUND IN MANHATTAN'S LOWER EAS
SIDE IS MORE OF A SNAPSHOT O
PUBLIC OPINION RATHER THAN A
SCIENTIFIC SAMPLING.
>> THIS IS LITTLE UKRAINE, A
SMALL ENCLAVE IN THE EAS
VILLAGE OF MANHATTAN
THERE ARE MORE THAN 113,00
ETHNIC UKRAINIANS LIVING IN TH
METROPOLITAN AREA.
SOME OF THEM RIGHT HERE.
THERE'S THE UKRAINIAN BUTCHER, A
BOOKSTORE, A CHURCH, A MUSEUM,
AND A SIDEWALK MEMORIA
COMMEMORATING THE DOZENS KILLE
DURING RECENT PROTESTS AGAINST
THE FORMER PRO-RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT
WE CAME HERE TO SEE HOW TH
UKRAINIAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY WAS
REACTING TO THE CURRENT CRISIS
IN A SMALL OFFICE ABOVE
RESTAURANT, WE MET
UKRAINIAN-AMERICANS DISCUSSING
PLANS TO PROTEST THE RUSSIAN
INCURSION INTO CRIMEA.
THEIR GOAL
TO GET ATHLETES AT THE
PARALYMPICS IN SOCHI TO PUBLICLY
SUPPORT THE PRO-WESTER
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
>> WE CAN TRY TO GET IN TOUC
WITH THEM THROUGH THE FACEBOOK
PAGE, ALSO A LOT OF ATHLETES
THEY HAVE THEIR TWITTE
ACCOUNTS
WE CAN TWEET AT THEM
>> MARIA IS THE COMMUNIT
RELATIONS DIRECTOR AT
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION
SHE'S LIVED IN THE UNITED STATES
FOR TEN YEARS, BUT HER FATHE
AND MANY OF HER FRIENDS STIL
LIVE IN KIEV
>> A LOT OF MY CLASSMATES AR
THERE.
SOME OF THEM WERE INJURED.
SO IT'S VERY CLOSE TO HOME
>> IMAGES OUT OF EASTERN UKRAINE
SHOW PRO-RUSSIAN DEMONSTRATORS
RALLYING IN LARGE NUMBERS.
BUT ALEXANDER, A PROFESSOR WHO
FOCUSES ON RUSSIAN AND UKRAINIAN
ISSUES AT RUTGERS UNIVERSITY AND
HAS UKRAINIAN ROOTS HIMSELF,
SAID THE EAST-WEST DIVIDE IN
UKRAINE HAS BEEN OVERSTATED.
>> WHAT PEOPLE DO HERE IN TH
U.S., AND ESPECIALLY THE MEDIA
FRANKLY, IS THEY MAKE THAT
FUNDAMENTAL MISTAKE OF COMPARING
THE TWO EXTREMES, AND THEN
PROJECTING THOSE CHARACTERISTICS
ON THE REST OF THE COUNTRY
AND IT'S JUST NOT QUITE THE CASE
THAT EVERYTHING FALLS NEATLY
INTO TWO BLACK AND WHITE BOXES
THAT'S REALLY THE BOTTOM LINE.
>> HE POINTS TO A POLL CONDUCTED
IN FEBRUARY BY THE KIE
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
SOCIOLOGY WHICH SHOWED A
MAJORITY OF THE COUNTRY WANTS AN
INDEPENDENT UKRAINE.
EVEN IN CRIMEA, THE SAME POLLS
SHOWED THAT 40% OF THE
POPULATION WANTS UNIFICATION
WITH RUSSIA.
AND HE SAYS THAT THE UKRAINIAN
DI ASPRACTICE IN THE UNITE
STATES SUPPORTS THE GOVERNMENT
IN KIEV.
>> THE FORMER PRESIDENT HAD TO
GO
THE DEMOCRATS HAVE TO TRIUMPH.
PUTIN IS AN IMPERIALIST, HE HA
TO BE STOPPED OR HE'LL DISMEMBER
THE COUNTRY.
THAT'S PUTTING IT IN A NUTSHELL.
BUT I WOULD BET OVER 95% O
EVERYBODY WHO CLAIMS TO BE FRO
UKRAINE OR HAD SOME KIND O
LOYALTY TO UKRAINE WOULD
SUBSCRIBE TO THESE TENETS.
>> UKRAINIANS WHO CAME HERE HAVE
ADOPTED AMERICAN VALUES.
AT A POPULAR NEIGHBORHOOD AT A
UKRAINIAN RESTAURANT, WE MET A
MEMBER OF THE UKRAINIAN NATIONAL
HOME, A CULTURAL ORGANIZATION.
HIS FATHER WAS A MEMBER OF THE
UKRAINIAN UNDERGROUND DURING
WORLD WAR II
>> THEY HAD TO FIGHT AGAINST THE
GERMANS AND AGAINST TH
RUSSIANS
>> HE VISITS RELATIVES AND
FRIENDS IN UKRAINE TWO OR THRE
TIMES A YEAR
THE LAST TIME WAS JUST THI
JANUARY DURING PROTESTS IN KIE
AGAINST THE FORMER PRESIDENT
>> THEY DIDN'T WANT TO HAV
VIOLENCE
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO HAVE
CONFRONTATION.
THEY JUST WANTED TO HAVE CHANGE,
BUT IN A PEACEFUL WAY.
>> WHEN YOU HEARD THAT RUSSIAN
TROOPS WERE GOING TO UKRAINE
WHAT DOES THAT FEEL LIKE
>> YOU FEEL LIKE YOU WANT TO D
SOMETHING.
BUT YOU CAN'T DO ANYTHING.
AND YOU'RE HOPING THAT YOU GET
SOME SUPPORT FROM THE WORLD.
>> HE BELIEVES THE WEST ISN'
DOING ENOUGH TO SUPPORT THE NE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT
JASON BASHARD IS A
THIRD-GENERATION
UKRAINIAN-AMERICAN
HE SAID EVERYBODY IN THE
RESTAURANT IS VERY TENSE ABOUT
THE CONFLICT
>> THE PEOPLE HERE
UKRAINIAN-AMERICANS FEEL VER
ANGRY.
THERE'S SOME SENSE OF PEOPLE
WANTING TO GO HOME TO ENLIST
TO FIGHT
AND WE'RE HOPING THAT THERE WILL
BE A RESOLUTION.
>> HE TOOK US INTO THE KITCHEN
WHERE A BEAT SOUP WAS BEIN
PREPARED, WHICH IS CONSIDERED TO
BE RUSSIAN
BUT THEY SAY IT'S ACTUALLY
UKRAINIAN.
THEY SAY EVERYBODY IN TH
RESTAURANT IS GLUED TO THEIR
PHONES AND THE NEWS, WAITING FOR
EVERY LITTLE PIECE O
INFORMATION ABOUT THE CONFLICT
YOUR FAMILY IN THE UKRAINE, WHAT
ARE YOU HEARING FROM THEM?
WHAT ARE PEOPLE SAYING
>> I THINK PEOPLE ARE VERY
NERVOUS, YOU KNOW.
MY FAMILY'S FROM THE WEST.
SO THAT CONFLICT ISN'T HAPPENING
THERE, BUT THEY'RE STILL VER
NERVOUS.
NO ONE WANTS THEIR COUNTRY TOR
APART.
>> A COUPLE BLOCKS AWAY FROM THE
RESTAURANT, A UKRAINIAN GIFT
SHOP
HIS GRANDFATHER OPENED THE STORE
IN 1918.
IT'S FILLED WITH UKRAINIAN ART
BOOKS AND MUSIC.
HE CAN'T BELIEVE A CRISIS LIKE
THIS COULD HAPPEN IN THE 21s
CENTURY.
>> I DIDN'T THINK THIS IS HO
PEOPLE BEHAVED ANYMORE FRLT
THOUGHT THAT WAS RELEGATED T
HISTORY.
BUT NOW APPARENTLY IT'S OKAY FOR
ANOTHER COUNTRY TO JUST GO I
AND TO CLAIM ANOTHER PART OF
ANOTHER COUNTRY AS THEIRS.
>> HE SUPPORTS SANCTIONS AND
TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS AGAINS
RUSSIA
BUT STOPS SHORT OF SUPPORTIN
MILITARY ACTION.
>> THE THOUGHT OF JUST BECOMIN
A GLOBAL CONFLICT WITH DIFFERENT
COUNTRIES TAKING SIDES, THAT
FRIGHTENS ME BEYOND IMAGINATION.
>> IT WAS A COMMON SENTIMENT
WAR IS NOT THE ANSWER.
IT'S WHAT WE HEARD FROM
DECORATED VIETNAM WAR VETERAN.
>> WE DON'T WANT WAR
ESPECIALLY MILITARY PEOPLE LIK
MYSELF
AS SOON AS A WAR STARTS,
UKRAINIANS WILL DIE FIRST.
>> PROFESSOR ALEXANDER SAID TH
CONFLICT STIRRED THE
UKRAINIAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
LIKE NEVER BEFORE, BRINGIN
TOGETHER ETHNIC UKRAINIANS O
DIFFERENT GENERATIONS AND FROM
DIFFERENT PARTS OF UKRAINE
>> WHAT THIS CRISIS HAS DONE I
FORCED PEOPLE TO SAY, YOU KNOW
I GUESS I'M UKRAINIAN.
AND I GUESS IT MEANS SOMETHING
IT MEANS SOMETHING POLITICALLY
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW, WE'LL HAVE THE LATES
FROM THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE
MARGARET WARNER WILL JOIN US
AGAIN FROM CRIMEA FOLLOWING TH
REFERENDUM THERE
>>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NEWS WEEKEND.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING